src/exercise/02.md, before:

# Compound Components

## 📝 What I've learnt
-

## Background

**One liner:** The Compound Components Pattern enables you to provide a set of
components that implicitly share state for a simple yet powerful declarative API
for reusable components.

Compound components are components that work together to form a complete UI. The
classic example of this is `<select>` and `<option>` in HTML:

```html
<select>
  <option value="1">Option 1</option>
  <option value="2">Option 2</option>
</select>
```

The `<select>` is the element responsible for managing the state of the UI, and
the `<option>` elements are essentially more configuration for how the select
should operate (specifically, which options are available and their values).

Let's imagine that we were going to implement this native control manually. A
naive implementation would look something like this:

```jsx
<CustomSelect
  options={[
    {value: '1', display: 'Option 1'},
    {value: '2', display: 'Option 2'},
  ]}
/>
```

This works fine, but it's less extensible/flexible than a compound components
API. For example. What if I want to supply additional attributes on the
`<option>` that's rendered, or I want the `display` to change based on whether
it's selected? We can easily add API surface area to support these use cases,
but that's just more for us to code and more for users to learn. That's where
compound components come in really handy!

**Real World Projects that use this pattern:**

- [`@reach/tabs`](https://reacttraining.com/reach-ui/tabs)
- Actually most of [Reach UI](https://reacttraining.com/reach-ui) implements
  this pattern

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/02.js)
- [Final](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.js)

Every reusable component starts out as a simple implementation for a specific
use case. It's advisable to not overcomplicate your components and try to solve
every conceivable problem that you don't yet have (and likely will never have).
But as changes come (and they almost always do), then you'll want the
implementation of your component to be flexible and changeable. Learning how to
do that is the point of much of this workshop.

This is why we're starting with a super simple `<Toggle />` component.

In this exercise we're going to make `<Toggle />` the parent of a few compound
components:

- `<ToggleOn />` renders children when the `on` state is `true`
- `<ToggleOff />` renders children when the `on` state is `false`
- `<ToggleButton />` renders the `<Switch />` with the `on` prop set to the `on`
  state and the `onClick` prop set to `toggle`.

We have a Toggle component that manages the state, and we want to render
different parts of the UI however we want. We want control over the presentation
of the UI.

🦉 The fundamental challenge you face with an API like this is the state shared
between the components is implicit, meaning that the developer using your
component cannot actually see or interact with the state (`on`) or the
mechanisms for updating that state (`toggle`) that are being shared between the
components.

So in this exercise, we'll solve that problem by providing the compound
components with the props they need implicitly using `React.cloneElement`.

Here's a simple example of using `React.Children.map` and `React.cloneElement`:

```javascript
function Foo({children}) {
  return React.Children.map(children, (child, index) => {
    return React.cloneElement(child, {
      id: `i-am-child-${index}`,
    })
  })
}

function Bar() {
  return (
    <Foo>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-0"</div>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-1"</div>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-2"</div>
    </Foo>
  )
}
```

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 Support DOM component children

[Production deploy](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.extra-1.js)

> A DOM component is a built-in component like `<div />`, `<span />`, or
> `<blink />`. A composite component is a custom component like `<Toggle />` or
> `<App />`.

Try updating the `App` to this:

```javascript
function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Toggle>
        <ToggleOn>The button is on</ToggleOn>
        <ToggleOff>The button is off</ToggleOff>
        <span>Hello</span>
        <ToggleButton />
      </Toggle>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Notice the error message in the console and try to fix it.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Advanced%20React%20Patterns%20%F0%9F%A4%AF&e=02%3A%20Compound%20Components&em=).

Commit message:

02-Compound component: a better version of Lifting State

src/exercise/02.md, after:

# Compound Components

## 📝 What I've learnt
- Abstracting away the state management of child components to their parent using `React.Children` and `React.cloneElement`
- Use `cloneElement` to maintain immutability between renders of child components.
- Notice ([at 1:05](https://epicreact.dev/modules/advanced-react-patterns/compound-components-extra-credit-solution-1)) when passing props to a non-functional component (DOM element)

## Background

**One liner:** The Compound Components Pattern enables you to provide a set of
components that implicitly share state for a simple yet powerful declarative API
for reusable components.

Compound components are components that work together to form a complete UI. The
classic example of this is `<select>` and `<option>` in HTML:

```html
<select>
  <option value="1">Option 1</option>
  <option value="2">Option 2</option>
</select>
```

The `<select>` is the element responsible for managing the state of the UI, and
the `<option>` elements are essentially more configuration for how the select
should operate (specifically, which options are available and their values).

Let's imagine that we were going to implement this native control manually. A
naive implementation would look something like this:

```jsx
<CustomSelect
  options={[
    {value: '1', display: 'Option 1'},
    {value: '2', display: 'Option 2'},
  ]}
/>
```

This works fine, but it's less extensible/flexible than a compound components
API. For example. What if I want to supply additional attributes on the
`<option>` that's rendered, or I want the `display` to change based on whether
it's selected? We can easily add API surface area to support these use cases,
but that's just more for us to code and more for users to learn. That's where
compound components come in really handy!

**Real World Projects that use this pattern:**

- [`@reach/tabs`](https://reacttraining.com/reach-ui/tabs)
- Actually most of [Reach UI](https://reacttraining.com/reach-ui) implements
  this pattern

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/02.js)
- [Final](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.js)

Every reusable component starts out as a simple implementation for a specific
use case. It's advisable to not overcomplicate your components and try to solve
every conceivable problem that you don't yet have (and likely will never have).
But as changes come (and they almost always do), then you'll want the
implementation of your component to be flexible and changeable. Learning how to
do that is the point of much of this workshop.

This is why we're starting with a super simple `<Toggle />` component.

In this exercise we're going to make `<Toggle />` the parent of a few compound
components:

- `<ToggleOn />` renders children when the `on` state is `true`
- `<ToggleOff />` renders children when the `on` state is `false`
- `<ToggleButton />` renders the `<Switch />` with the `on` prop set to the `on`
  state and the `onClick` prop set to `toggle`.

We have a Toggle component that manages the state, and we want to render
different parts of the UI however we want. We want control over the presentation
of the UI.

🦉 The fundamental challenge you face with an API like this is the state shared
between the components is implicit, meaning that the developer using your
component cannot actually see or interact with the state (`on`) or the
mechanisms for updating that state (`toggle`) that are being shared between the
components.

So in this exercise, we'll solve that problem by providing the compound
components with the props they need implicitly using `React.cloneElement`.

Here's a simple example of using `React.Children.map` and `React.cloneElement`:

```javascript
function Foo({children}) {
  return React.Children.map(children, (child, index) => {
    return React.cloneElement(child, {
      id: `i-am-child-${index}`,
    })
  })
}

function Bar() {
  return (
    <Foo>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-0"</div>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-1"</div>
      <div>I will have id "i-am-child-2"</div>
    </Foo>
  )
}
```

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 Support DOM component children

[Production deploy](http://advanced-react-patterns.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.extra-1.js)

> A DOM component is a built-in component like `<div />`, `<span />`, or
> `<blink />`. A composite component is a custom component like `<Toggle />` or
> `<App />`.

Try updating the `App` to this:

```javascript
function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Toggle>
        <ToggleOn>The button is on</ToggleOn>
        <ToggleOff>The button is off</ToggleOff>
        <span>Hello</span>
        <ToggleButton />
      </Toggle>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Notice the error message in the console and try to fix it.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Advanced%20React%20Patterns%20%F0%9F%A4%AF&e=02%3A%20Compound%20Components&em=).
